SOURCE: https://getoptimal.ai/docs/optibot-cli/security-scans
TITLE: Optibot CLI — Security Scans — Optimal Docs

Optibot CLI — Security Scans — Optimal Docs 
 / Docs / Optibot CLI / Security scans 
 Search ⌘K 
getoptimal.ai

 Getting Started Start guide 
 Trial setup 
 GitHub App installation 
 Slack integration 
 Optimal Insights overview 
 Agentic Code Reviews Overview 
 GitHub integration setup 
 GitLab integration setup 
 Optibot features 
 Review Memory 
 VS Code extension 
 Review Statistics 
 Optibot CLI Installation & getting started 
 Organizations & account status 
 Security scans 
 CLI for agents & CI/CD pipelines 
 Optibot Config Configuration overview 
 Review settings 
 Summary settings 
 CI fixer settings 
 Dependency bundler 
 Monorepo guidelines 
 Engineering Insights Overview 
 Jira integration 
 Distributions 
 Activity view 
 PR Cycle Time 
 AI Insights 
 Contributors 
 Optibot Claude Code Skill Getting started 
 Optibot for IDE Optibot MCP 
 Reviewing code with MCP 
 Security Scans

 The optibot scan command group runs AI-powered security scans against the repositories in your active organization. A scan analyzes a repository and produces a markdown report of findings. You can run a scan on demand, view past results, inspect token usage and pricing, and configure recurring scheduled scans.

 Scans are billed by token usage against a prepaid AI-credit balance, separate from your code-review quota. See Billing below.

 Running a Scan

 # By repository name 
 optibot scan run my-repo 

 # By repository id 
 optibot scan run 42 

 The repository argument accepts either a repository id or its name (use the id if two repositories share a name). Run optibot scan repos to see what is available in the active organization.

 While the scan runs, the CLI streams live progress over a WebSocket and then waits for the final report. When it finishes, the full result is printed to your terminal.

 Options

 Option Description 
 --budget <usd> Maximum spend for this scan, in USD. Must be between 0.50 and 500 . 
 --model-tier <tier> Model tier to use: low , medium , or high . Higher tiers cost more per token. 
 --post-as-issue Also open the scan report as a GitHub or GitLab issue on the repository. 
 --timeout <seconds> How long to wait for the scan to finish before giving up. Defaults to 600 . 
 --json Emit the result as JSON and suppress live progress output (for scripts and CI). 

 If a scan does not finish before --timeout , the CLI stops waiting and exits non-zero. The scan keeps running on the server: check back later with optibot scan list , or re-run with a longer --timeout .

 optibot scan run my-repo --budget 5 --model-tier high --post-as-issue 

 Listing Past Scans

 optibot scan list 

 Lists recent scans for the active organization, most recent first.

 Option Description 
 --repo <repo> Filter by repository id or name. 
 --page <n> Page number. Defaults to 1 . 
 --page-size <n> Results per page. Defaults to 5 , maximum 50 . 
 --json Emit the page of results as JSON. 

 Viewing a Scan Report

 optibot scan show < scan-i d > 

 Renders the full markdown report for a single scan. Pass the scan id from optibot scan list .

 Option Description 
 --raw Print raw markdown with no terminal formatting. 
 --json Emit the full scan object as JSON. 

 When output is not a terminal (for example, piped to a file), the report is emitted as raw markdown automatically.

 Token Usage and Pricing

 # Current-month token usage and cost for scans 
 optibot scan usage 

 # Per-tier scan pricing and markup multiplier 
 optibot scan pricing 

 Both commands accept --json . Use scan usage to track how much you have spent on scans this month, and scan pricing to see what each model tier costs before you run one.

 Listing Scannable Repositories

 optibot scan repos 

 Lists the repositories available to scan in the active organization, with their ids. Add --json for machine-readable output.

 Scheduled Scans

 Optibot can run scans on a recurring schedule without you triggering them. View the current configuration with:

 optibot scan config 

 Update it with optibot scan config set :

 # Enable a weekly scan on the high tier with a $5 budget for two repos 
 optibot scan config set --enabled --schedule weekly --model-tier high --budget 5 --repos 42,57 

 # Use a custom cron schedule 
 optibot scan config set --enabled --schedule custom --cron "0 3 * * 1" 

 # Turn scheduled scans off 
 optibot scan config set --disabled 

 Option Description 
 --enabled Enable scheduled scans. 
 --disabled Disable scheduled scans. 
 --schedule <schedule> weekly , monthly , quarterly , or custom . 
 --cron <expr> Cron expression. Required when --schedule custom . 
 --model-tier <tier> low , medium , or high . 
 --budget <usd> Max budget per scheduled scan, in USD ( 0.50 – 500 ). 
 --repos <ids> Comma-separated repository ids to include. 
 --post-as-issue / --no-post-as-issue Post (or stop posting) scheduled-scan reports as issues. 
 --json Emit the saved configuration as JSON. 

 Only the options you pass are changed; everything else keeps its current value.

 Billing

 Security scans are metered by token usage and billed against a prepaid AI-credit balance , which is separate from your monthly code-review quota.

 Set a ceiling per scan with --budget .

 Higher model tiers ( --model-tier ) produce deeper analysis but cost more per token.

 Check what you have spent this month with optibot scan usage , and per-tier rates with optibot scan pricing .

 If your balance is too low to start a scan, the CLI exits with a clear message showing your current balance, the amount required, and a top-up link.

 Exit Codes

 The scan commands use stable exit codes so you can branch on them in CI scripts:

 Code Meaning 
 0 Success 
 1 Generic failure (including rate limiting and server errors) 
 2 Authentication or authorization failed 
 3 Insufficient AI credits 
 4 A scan is already running for this repository 
 5 Repository or scan not found 
 6 Invalid request 

 Combine these with --json to drive scans from automation. See CLI for Agents & CI/CD Pipelines for authentication in non-interactive environments.
