SOURCE: https://getoptimal.ai/docs/optibot-cli/installation
TITLE: Optibot CLI — Installation & Getting Started — Optimal Docs

Optibot CLI — Installation & Getting Started — Optimal Docs 
 / Docs / Optibot CLI / Installation & getting started 
 Search ⌘K 
getoptimal.ai

 Getting Started Start guide 
 Trial setup 
 GitHub App installation 
 Slack integration 
 Optimal Insights overview 
 Agentic Code Reviews Overview 
 GitHub integration setup 
 GitLab integration setup 
 Optibot features 
 Review Memory 
 VS Code extension 
 Review Statistics 
 Optibot CLI Installation & getting started 
 Organizations & account status 
 Security scans 
 CLI for agents & CI/CD pipelines 
 Optibot Config Configuration overview 
 Review settings 
 Summary settings 
 CI fixer settings 
 Dependency bundler 
 Monorepo guidelines 
 Engineering Insights Overview 
 Jira integration 
 Distributions 
 Activity view 
 PR Cycle Time 
 AI Insights 
 Contributors 
 Optibot Claude Code Skill Getting started 
 Optibot for IDE Optibot MCP 
 Reviewing code with MCP 
 Optibot CLI — Getting Started and Installation

 The Optibot CLI expands Optibot’s capabilities by letting Optibot be used by both humans and agents through a terminal or virtual environment of choice.

 The CLI is available directly through npm as a published package and is regularly updated and maintained by the Optimal AI Engineering Team.

 Requirements for Installation

 Node 20.0.0 or above

 Git

 Windows / Mac / Linux

 A paid or trial subscription to Optibot. Login here or sign up here .

 Install

 npm install -g @optimalai/optibot 

 Authentication

 1. Browser-Based OAuth (Recommended for Interactive Use)

 Best for local development and interactive CLI usage:

 optibot login 

 This will:

 Open your browser for login

 Automatically save your credentials

 Token expires after 90 days

 Use this when: 

 Setting up CLI on your local machine

 You have browser access

 Interactive development workflow

 2. API Key (For Agents & CI/CD)

 See the CLI for CI/CD Pipelines guide for headless authentication.

 How to Use the CLI

 # Review local uncommitted changes 
 optibot review 

 # Review against the auto-detected base branch (origin/main, origin/master, or origin/develop) 
 optibot review -b 

 # Review changes against a specific branch 
 optibot review --branch origin/main 

 # Review an arbitrary diff file 
 optibot review --diff changes.patch 

 # Exit non-zero when the review does not pass (for git hooks / CI) 
 optibot review --fail-on-issues 

 # Use the previous synchronous review behavior 
 # (only needed against older self-hosted backends) 
 optibot review --sync 

 By default optibot review is advisory: it always exits 0 and simply prints feedback. Add --fail-on-issues to make it exit non-zero when the review does not pass, so it can gate a git pre-push hook or a CI step. See CLI for Agents & CI/CD Pipelines for using it in a pipeline.

 Large Reviews (v0.7.3 and Later)

 Reviews of large diffs now complete reliably. In earlier CLI versions, very large reviews could fail with a timeout error (HTTP 524) before finishing. Since v0.7.3, reviews of any size run to completion, with live progress in your terminal as before, and nothing needs to be configured.

 Upgrading is a drop-in change. Your existing optibot review commands, scripts, and CI configuration keep working with no edits, and there is nothing new to turn on. Older CLI versions still work as well, so you can upgrade on your own schedule; only v0.7.3 and later include the large-diff fix, so upgrade to resolve the timeout.

 The --sync flag

 optibot review --sync runs a review the previous way, in a single request. It exists only for running the CLI against an older self-hosted backend that predates this change. It also brings back the previous timeout on large diffs, so do not use it to work around a timeout: for that, upgrade instead. On the hosted service you never need --sync .

 Branch Review

 When using -b / --branch , the CLI will:

 Auto-detect the base branch if no branch name is provided. It checks for origin/main , origin/master , and origin/develop in that order.

 Check for merge conflicts before submitting the review. If conflicts are detected with the target branch, a warning is displayed.

 Generate a diff and collect file contents for the review.

 Review Output

 After each review, the CLI displays:

 Review Summary — general comments about the changes

 File Comments — per-file feedback with line numbers

 Rate limit info — reviews used, remaining quota, and time until reset

 The display is color-coded:

 Dim when usage is normal

 Yellow when less than 10% of reviews remain

 Red when the quota is exhausted

 Organizations & Status

 If you belong to more than one organization, the CLI acts as one active organization at a time. Use optibot status to see how you are authenticated and which organization is active, and optibot org switch to change it. See Organizations & Account Status for the full picture, including how API keys are bound to an organization.

 # Show auth status, active organization, and review quota 
 optibot status 

 # List your organizations / switch the active one 
 optibot org list 
 optibot org switch 

 Security Scans

 Beyond code review, the CLI can run AI-powered security scans against your repositories with optibot scan . See Security Scans for the full command group, model tiers, budgets, scheduled scans, and token billing.

 # Trigger a security scan on a repository (by id or name) 
 optibot scan run my-repo 

 Commands Reference

 Command Description 
 optibot login Authenticate via browser (OAuth) 
 optibot logout Log out and remove saved credentials 
 optibot status Show auth status, active organization, and review quota 
 optibot review Review local uncommitted changes 
 optibot review -b Review against auto-detected base branch 
 optibot review -b <branch> Review against a specific target branch 
 optibot review -d <file> Review a diff file 
 optibot review --fail-on-issues Exit non-zero when the review does not pass 
 optibot review --sync Use the previous synchronous review behavior 
 optibot org list List organizations you belong to 
 optibot org current Show the active organization 
 optibot org switch Switch the active organization (interactive) 
 optibot apikey create <name> Create a new API key 
 optibot apikey list List all API keys 
 optibot apikey delete <id> Delete an API key 
 optibot setup ci Guided CI setup: mint a long-lived API key for OPTIBOT_API_KEY 
 optibot scan run <repo> Run an AI security scan on a repository 
 optibot scan list List recent security scans 
 optibot scan show <scan-id> Show a scan’s full report 
 optibot scan config View or update scheduled-scan configuration
