SOURCE: https://getoptimal.ai/
TITLE: AI Code Review for GitHub & GitLab | Optibot by Optimal AI

AI writes the code. Optibot makes sure it's safe to ship.

Optibot proactively finds bugs, fixes CI failures and uses full codebase context to catch 2x more security vulnerabilities. 

GET A DEMO

 See how Optibot works in 2 minutes Switching from Cursor BugBot or Claude Code? See your cost savings → 

Helping optimize code reviews and engineering productivity at:

Trusted by world-class engineering teams building with AI.

 Comparisons 
 Human-level reviews. Machine-level memory.

 The only agent that truly understands your full multi-repo context.

 Human Claude Code Cursor Bugbot 
 chelseatroy reviewed on Sep 17 

 27
 import { axeTkap } from "cone" ; 

 28

 29
 const applyDiscount = () => { 

 30
 if ( pricing . login ) { 

 31
 return savePrice = appleylogity (); 

 32
 } 

 33
 };

 chelseatroy on Sep 17 Member 
 LGTM 

 Generic AI tools provide noise; humans lack the context to see cross-repo dependencies.

 VS 
 VS 

 Optibot 

 Pull Request 
 27
 import { getDiscountTier } from "@org/shared-utils" ; 

 28

 29
 export const applyDiscount = ( user : User , price : number): number => { 

 30
 // Optibot Context: "user.login" was renamed to "user.username" 

 31
 if ( user . username && user . isPremium ) { 
 Suggested by Optibot

 32
 const tier = getDiscountTier ( user . id ); 

 33
 return price * tier . multiplier ; 

 34
 }

 32
 return price ; 

 33
 };

 Optibot sees the invisible connections in your architecture that others miss.

 The Math Saves 40 hours/week for a team of 4.

 The Social Proof "Optibot is like having a Senior AI Engineer on my team."
 — Simon B, Nearfleet 
 The Security Stat 2x more security vulnerabilities caught vs. standard reviewers.

 Nearfleet 

Your on-call engineer who knows your codebase and your team

One platform to review code, measure engineering productivity, and track your AI agents' impact.

 High Code Review Quality Engineering Productivity Metrics Clear PR Summaries On Call Pair Programmer AI Adoption Insights 
 Every PR reviewed by a senior engineer that understands your entire codebase
 Optibot is an AI engineer with full historical codebase context of past decisions, patterns, discussions, and implementations. 
 It catches breaking changes, risky patterns, and security vulnerabilities. 

 const stripe = require("stripe")(process.env.STRIPE_KEY);
 const session = await stripe.checkout.sessions.create({
 mode: "subscription",
 line_items: [{ price: priceId, quantity: 1 }],
 success_url: `${process.env.DOMAIN}/success`,
 cancel_url: `${process.env.DOMAIN}/cancel`,
 });
 module.exports = { session };

 Understands your whole codebase 
 Instant PR reviews 

 Suggested by Optibot 

 Optibot code review just now 
 Here's the PR
 import jwt from "jsonwebtoken" ; 
 const user = jwt.verify(token, process.env.JWT_SECRET); 
 // user is now fully validated and verified

 Sam Lee
 CEO & Co-Founder, Artemis Ops

 “We used to read through every single change. Now, we still skim but we rely on Optibot to highlight the big issues.” 

 Deep visibility into speed, workflow, and engineering focus.
 Shows PR Cycle Time with exact slowdowns (time to open, review wait, rework, merge) 
 Reveals your team's weekly rhythm across commits, reviews, and merges 

 Pull Request Author Reworks Status 
 fix(auth): resolve token refresh race condition 0 — 
 feat(billing): annual plan discount logic 0 — 
 refactor(api): extract rate limiter middleware 0 — 
 chore(deps): upgrade Stripe SDK to v12 0 — 
 fix(ui): correct dashboard chart rendering 0 — 

 Average Cycle Time
 8.7 Hours
 ↑ 95.01%

 Time to Open
 5.9 Hours
 ↓ 87.83%

 Time in Review
 1 Minute
 ↑ 3.47%

 Time to Merge
 8.7 Hours
 ↑ 95.01%

 Lila Brooks
 Software Engineering Manager, MongoDB

 “We cut PR size nearly 50% and improved cycle time by understanding where reviews were slowing down.” 

 Optibot explains each PR so you understand in seconds.
 Condenses every PR into what changed, why, and its potential impact. 
 Highlights risk areas and architectural implications. 

 Generated by Optibot 

 Summary

This pull request aims to improve the handling of Stripe trial subscriptions that are ending without a valid payment method on file.

 Key changes
 Proactive Switch to Free Plan:
 The Stripe webhook handler for customer.subscription.trial_will_end immediately downgrades accounts without valid payment.

 New Service Layer:
 Centralized SubscriptionService with consistent retry logic and error handling.

 Tim Wagner
 Co-founder and CEO, Sevenn

 “AI writes our code and Optibot agents ensure quality by reviewing and testing automatically.” 

 Ask questions, Optibot is a senior engineer on your team.
 Answers questions about PRs, services, functions, and past decisions. 
 Walks through bugs, regressions, and failing tests step-by-step. 

 agent-optibot bot just now 
 Looks like this line commits twice, might cause a transaction error.

🧑‍💻

 syedahmedz 2 minutes ago 
 Good catch, fixing now.

 agent-optibot bot just now 
 ✅ All set after the latest commit.

 Grainger Blackett
 CTO, Prado

 “It’s like chatting with another engineer. You can ask it questions, get clear feedback, and move faster.” 

 See how AI is actually being used and where it drives real output.
 Track AI-generated code across repos and measure real adoption. 
 Surface where AI saves time and where humans still add the most value. 

 Overall Code Acceptance Rate
 54.5% 

 Top Performing Model
 🤖 Claude-3.7 

 Avg Daily Error Rate
 ⚡ 85.2% 

AI engagement up 24% week-over-week. Claude-3.7 drives the highest acceptance across Python teams. 

 0% 50% 100% 

 Enam Haque
 Sr Director of Engineering, Mpulse

 “We want to keep showing the value of AI to our leadership. These reports help prove it with real numbers.” 

 MongoDB × Optimal AI
 How MongoDB cut PR size by 50% and improved review speed.

 READ CASE STUDY › 

 Prado × Optimal AI
 How Prado 5×'d deploys with thoughtful Agentic code reviews

 READ CASE STUDY › 

 Artemis Ops × Optimal AI
 How Artemis Ops sped up reviews 20% with a lean team

 READ CASE STUDY › 

One Agent. Built to handle engineering workflows from code reviews to insights

 GET A DEMO 

 Optibot Agent
 Reviews that understand your codebase
 Understands your entire codebase and gets smarter with every review, learning from your feedback, coding patterns, and more to deliver sharper results over time.
 Senior Engineers
 who want fewer false flags, more meaningful feedback.

 Optibot Agent
 Trigger Optibot in VSCode or Cursor
 Optibot integrates natively into VS Code so engineers can trigger reviews, fix CI issues, and get instant explanations without ever leaving their editor.
 The IC Engineers
 who hate context-switching between tools.

 Insights
 Team Activity Breakdown
 Visualize team output across commits, reviews, merges, and discussions to spot workload week over week.
 CTO's, VPEs, Engineering Manager
 who want to view team workload week to week.

 Optibot Agent
 Generates Release Notes on Command
 Automatically generate clean, customer-ready release notes grouped by Features, Improvements, and Fixes with no manual formatting required.
 Product Managers
 who want updates shipped faster.

 Insights
 Jira Progress & Sprint Health
 Track Jira-linked issues, story points, and carryover work to ensure teams deliver consistently across sprints.
 Product Managers, Scrum Masters
 who manage chaos across Jira boards daily.

 Insights
 Allocations & Distributions
 See how work splits across features, bugs, and refactors and set goals to keep priorities aligned.
 VPE, Director of Engineering & CTO
 who want visibility into where engineering time really goes.

 Optibot Agent
 Slack Reports & Summaries
 Weekly digest of completed reviews, agent activity, and improvements delivered directly to your own Slack channel.
 Engineering Managers
 who need to stay updated on team progress, day-to-day.

 Insights
 Contributor View
 Understand who's reviewing, who's shipping, and where review relationships or dependencies may be slowing progress.
 Engineering Managers
 who need real data to back up performance reviews.

 Why Engineering Leaders Choose Optimal
 Cycle Time Cut by Up to 97% in Just One Week

“Optibot's PR reviews are genuinely useful. The team immediately noticed the difference compared to our old code reviewer. I love the Insights platform. Being able to understand all our teams' analytics and act on them in one place is critical.”

 Manh Do
 Co-Founder & CTO, Blaze

 Time to Merge ↓ 40% 
 Review Time ↓ 35% 

 40+ Hours of Spreadsheet Work Eliminated and PRs Move 50% Faster Now

“Optimal AI is now essential to how we operate. Before, we were only focused on the work right in front of us. Now the entire team sees the story in real time.”

 Kat Heath
 Director of Project Management, Prometric (FineTune)

 PR Time to Open 50% Faster 
 40+ Hours Saved / Leader 

 Full Visibility Into Engineering Velocity Across Repositories

“I've been trying to get a hold of our speed and velocity and this finally gives me the visibility I need.”

 Isabella Maceda-Ali
 Founder & CTO, TaxGPT

 Repos Monitored in Real Time 

 Faster Reviews and Less Stress

“Optibot highlights the biggest issues first on every PR in Github, so reviews take minutes, not hours. Code reviews are 50% faster and less stressful.”

 Sam Lee
 CEO & Co-Founder, Artemis Ops

 Time to Review ↓ 50% 
 Merge Efficiency ↑ 2x 

 3x More Deploys, 30% Faster Reviews Without Adding Engineers

“We went from one or two daily deploys to five or six. Cycle time dropped 30%, and every PR gets reviewed instantly.”

 Grainger Blackett
 CTO, Prado

 Deploy Frequency ↑ 3x 
 Review Time ↓ 30% 

 Cut PR Size by 50% & Improved Cycle Times

“We now have a single place to see all our engineering metrics from Jira to GitHub without maintaining scripts.”

 Lila Brooks
 Software Engineering Manager, MongoDB

 PR Size ↓ 50% 
 Faster Cycle Time 

 Full Visibility Into Engineering Teams in Under a Week

“The ability to quickly understand how different engineering teams and contributors are performing gives me confidence that we will break up organizational bottlenecks.”

 Rebecca Yang
 Director of Engineering, HubSpot

 Teams Unified in One Dashboard 
 Cycle Time Visibility ↑ 100% 

 91% Faster Merge-to-Develop Time and 198 PRs Reviewed in 6 Weeks

“We want to keep showing the value of investing in AI to our leadership. Optimal's Insights help prove how our cycle times are improving with AI agents.”

 Enam Haque
 Sr Director of Engineering, Mpulse

 Cycle Time ↓ 26% 
 198 PRs Summarized 

Stay in flow with tools you already use.

Integrations natively across your workflows, all in sync, no context switching.

View all Integrations

 GitHub
 Sync PRs, comments, and metrics directly. Optibot reads, reviews, and reports all from your code host.

LEARN MORE

 VS Code
 Solve in VS Code from any PR comment. No setup needed, jump to the exact line, and apply Optibot's suggested fix.

LEARN MORE

 GitLab
 Optibot plugs into your GitLab flow to review PRs, post inline feedback, and track review metrics without context switching.

LEARN MORE

 Jira
 Connect every pull request to its issue for full visibility. See effort by epic, detect blocked work, and trace the why behind every change.

LEARN MORE

 Slack
 Receive review summaries, merge alerts, and team health updates where your team actually communicates.

LEARN MORE

 Cursor
 Solve in Cursor and launch the same seamless flow. Jump to the issue, and fix it with full context, all without leaving your IDE.

LEARN MORE

 Your code is never stored

Your code is processed ephemerally, encrypted end-to-end, and never stored. Optibot is
 designed for teams that need speed and enterprise-grade security from day one.

 Zero Retention

 Code is processed ephemerally in real-time and never stored.

 Admin Controls

 We never train our models on your proprietary code.

 AICPA 
 SOC2 

 SOC 2 Compliant

 Fully audited security controls and encryption.

 On-Prem Options

 Single-tenant deployments available for strict compliance needs.

 Enterprise Ready

SOC 2 roadmap • Audit logs • IP allowlisting • API governance • AES-256 encryption

 Frequently Asked Questions
 Everything you need to know about Optibot before getting started.

 How does Optibot get full context on my codebase? Optibot indexes your repository structure, files, dependencies, and patterns. It doesn't rely on token limits and doesn't store your code.

 Do engineers still review code manually? Yes — Optibot enhances your review process, acting like a senior engineer who catches issues early and summarizes changes. Humans remain in control.

 Does Optibot store our code? No. We use zero data retention , process everything ephemerally, and offer dedicated single-tenant deployments.

 Can Optibot detect security or performance issues? Yes. It flags potential vulnerabilities, misuse of patterns, large PR risks, and performance concerns based on how your codebase is structured.

 Will this slow my CI/CD or workflows? Not at all — Optibot runs asynchronously alongside your existing Git workflows without blocking builds.

Cut cycle time by 50% and get visibility into engineering productivity

Start reviewing PRs faster, catching issues earlier, and shipping with confidence.

Get a Demo

2261 Market Street STE 22540

San Francisco, CA 94114

 Product
 How it Works 
 Features 
 Pricing 
 Security 
 Compliance 

 Features
 AI Code Reviews 
 Deep vs. Shallow Reviews 
 Engineering Insights 
 Compliance 

 Resources
 Docs 
 Blog 
 Comparisons 
 Customer Success 
 LLM Token Calculator 
 Claude Code Review Calculator 
 Careers 

 Connect
 Contact Us 
 Twitter 
 LinkedIn 
 Youtube 

 Optimal AI ©2026 |
